skooma.md, before:

# Skooma

A functional-friendly helper library for procedural DOM generation and
templating.

Skooma provides two proxies: `html` and `svg`.

## Interface / Examples

```js
html.div()
// Creates a <div> element
html.div("hello", "world")
// Creates a <div> element with the content "helloworld"
html.div(html.span())
// Creates a <div> element with a nested <span> element
html.div([html.span(), html.span()])
// Creates a <div> element with two nested <span> elements
html.div({class: "foo"})
// Creates a <div> with the class "foo"
html.div({class: ["foo", "bar"]})
// Creates a <div> with the classes "foo" and "bar"
html.div({click: 1})
// Creates a <div> with the attribute "click" set to "1"
html.div({click: event => console.log(event.target)})
// Creates a <div> with an event listener for "click" events
html.div(player: {username: "KhajiitSlayer3564"})
// Creates a <div> with the attribute "player" set to a JSON-encoded Object
html.div(self => self.innerHTML = "Hello, World!")
// Creates a <div> and passes it to a function that sets its inner HTML
html.div({foo: true})
// Creates a <div>, adds the attribute "foo"
html.div({foo: "bar"}, {foo: false})
// Creates a <div>, sets the "foo" attribute to "bar", then removes it again

// Special keys:

html.div(dataset: {foo: 1, bar: 2})
// Creates a <div> with the attributes "data-foo" and "data-bar" set to 1 and 2
html.div(style: {color: 'red'})
// Creates a <div> with the "style" attribute set to "color: red"
```

Generators can be called with many arguments. Arrays get iterated recursively as
if they were part of a flat argument list.

## A few more examples:

Create a Button that deletes itself:

```js
document.body.append(
	html.button("Delete Me", {click: event => event.target.remove()})
)
```

Turn a two-dimensional array into an HTML table:
```js
const table = rows =>
	html.table(html.tbody(rows.map(
		row => html.tr(row.map(
			cell => html.rd(cell, {dataset: {
				content: cell.toLowerCase(),
			}})
		))
	)))
```

A list that you can add items to
```js
let list, input = ""
document.body.append(html.div([
	list=html.ul(),
	html.input({type: 'text', input: e => input = e.target.value}),
	html.button({click: event => list.append(html.li(input))}, "Add"),
]))
```

A list that you can also delete items from
```js
const listItem = content => html.li(
	html.span(content), " ", html.a("[remove]", {
		click: event => event.target.closest("li").remove(),
		style: { cursor: 'pointer', color: 'red' },
	})
)
let list, input = ""
document.body.append(html.div([
	list=html.ul(),
	html.input({type: 'text', input: e => input = e.target.value}),
	html.button({click: event => list.append(listItem(input))}, "Add"),
]))
```

Commit message:

Add `handle` helper function to skooma

skooma.md, after:

# Skooma

A functional-friendly helper library for procedural DOM generation and
templating.

Skooma provides two proxies: `html` and `svg`.

## Interface / Examples

```js
html.div()
// Creates a <div> element
html.div("hello", "world")
// Creates a <div> element with the content "helloworld"
html.div(html.span())
// Creates a <div> element with a nested <span> element
html.div([html.span(), html.span()])
// Creates a <div> element with two nested <span> elements
html.div({class: "foo"})
// Creates a <div> with the class "foo"
html.div({class: ["foo", "bar"]})
// Creates a <div> with the classes "foo" and "bar"
html.div({click: 1})
// Creates a <div> with the attribute "click" set to "1"
html.div({click: event => console.log(event.target)})
// Creates a <div> with an event listener for "click" events
html.div(player: {username: "KhajiitSlayer3564"})
// Creates a <div> with the attribute "player" set to a JSON-encoded Object
html.div(self => self.innerHTML = "Hello, World!")
// Creates a <div> and passes it to a function that sets its inner HTML
html.div({foo: true})
// Creates a <div>, adds the attribute "foo"
html.div({foo: "bar"}, {foo: false})
// Creates a <div>, sets the "foo" attribute to "bar", then removes it again

// Special keys:

html.div(dataset: {foo: 1, bar: 2}) // Creates a <div> with the attributes "data-foo" and "data-bar" set to 1 and 2 html.div(style: {color: 'red'}) // Creates a <div> with the "style" attribute set to "color: red"
```

Generators can be called with many arguments. Arrays get iterated recursively as
if they were part of a flat argument list.

## handle

Since it is common for event handlers to call `preventDefault()`, skooma
provides a helper function called `handle` with the following definition:

```js
fn => event => { event.preventDefault(); return fn(event) }
```

## A few more examples:

Create a Button that deletes itself:

```js
document.body.append(
	html.button("Delete Me", {click: event => event.target.remove()})
)
```

Turn a two-dimensional array into an HTML table:
```js
const table = rows =>
	html.table(html.tbody(rows.map(
		row => html.tr(row.map(
			cell => html.rd(cell, {dataset: {
				content: cell.toLowerCase(),
			}})
		))
	)))
```

A list that you can add items to
```js
let list, input = ""
document.body.append(html.div([
	list=html.ul(),
	html.input({type: 'text', input: e => input = e.target.value}),
	html.button({click: event => list.append(html.li(input))}, "Add"),
]))
```

A list that you can also delete items from
```js
const listItem = content => html.li(
	html.span(content), " ", html.a("[remove]", {
		click: event => event.target.closest("li").remove(),
		style: { cursor: 'pointer', color: 'red' },
	})
)
let list, input = ""
document.body.append(html.div([
	list=html.ul(),
	html.input({type: 'text', input: e => input = e.target.value}),
	html.button({click: event => list.append(listItem(input))}, "Add"),
]))
```
